Once your application grows, and there are dozens,
hundreds, or even possibly thousands of message types on your queues or topics,
maintaining message serializers becomes a real hassle.
For every new message type,
we need to decide how best to represent that object as a JMS message.
How do you break the object members down,
do you store them as message properties or in the body?
In my experience, for the most part, I don't really care.
I'm more concerned about delivering business value,
writing boilerplate serialization routines in my mind
takes my focus away from this task.
So for the majority of applications I work with,
I use some form of message converter that takes standard Java objects
and converts them into some form of version stream,
suitable for an easy and efficient serialization.
The standard JMS implementations allow you to serialize an
object directly using the object message type,
but there isn't really a concept of versioning in Java serialization,
therefore I generally find this inadequate.
So what I tend to do is create another Bean that can be used to
serialize and deserialize business objects into a form that can be
easily placed on the JMS destination.
There was an example of this in the module on using Spring Framework.
And in fact even without using the Spring Framework as a whole,
it is possible to use the JMS message converters available in
the Spring Framework JMS support libraries.
So if you really want a simple way of doing this,
then I'll suggest looking at those.
If not, and you want to roll your own,
then I thought I would provide a simple example of how you can go about this.
So here is a simple interface called MessageConverter.
It has two methods, one which serializes a message,
and another which deserializes it, pretty obvious.
The serialize method takes a JMS context as a parameter and
the business object to be serialized.
If you do not have access to the JMS 2 libraries,
then you would need to replace the JMSContext with a JMSSession object instead.
The deserialize method simply takes the JMSMessage as a parameter.
So, I've created an implementation of the messageConvert,
which I'm calling JsonMessageConverter,
as that is the serialized technique I will be using.
Now,
I'm not saying JSON is the most efficient format into
which you can serialize your objects,
both in terms of compute and physical size once serialized; however,
it is one of the easiest,
and the same concepts can be used for some other format,
be that binary or textual.
Inside my MessageConverter, I've implemented the serialize method,
which I use the JMSContext to create a new text message,
and then call this other method called writeContextToTextMessage.
I'm going to be using Jackson 2 for mapping my objects into and from JSON.
The main object used for this is the ObjectMapper.
It has a large number of configuration options that allow
it to be extended for serializing unknown types or known
types in different formats.
I'm not going to go into it here, but if required,
go and look up the documentation for it.
In the writeContentsToTextMessage method,
I'm using the ObjectMapper to convert the business object into a string,
which is in the JSON format.
I'm then placing a string within the main body of the text message.
I'm also setting a string property with the fully-qualified name
of the business object we are serializing.
The deserialize method is the opposite,
I'll read the fully-qualified class name from the
string property on the message.
I then find the class for that name, and pass it to the Jackson 2 objectMapper,
which reads the contents of the message body and
converts it back into our business object.
So let's see how this affects our message senders and message-driven Beans.
in the JMS 2 messageSender,
I'm declaring an overloaded version of the sendMessage method,
which takes the destination as the first parameter,
the second parameter, however, is now a generic business object.
The implementation of this method is now fairly simple.
I inject the messageConverter object I've created,
I could then use this to serialize my business object
into a JMS message and simply send it.
So let's briefly look at the client for this, which is the emailSender.
I've now created another method called sendEmail,
which takes an email object as the parameter.
This can now very simply call our messageSender with the name of
the destination and the email object itself.
Receiving a message isn't much different.
In my message-driven Bean, I again inject the messageConverter EJB,
this time when I receive a message, I call deserialize,
and get an instance of my business object,
which in this case is an email,
and therefore I output the contents to the console.
So the advantage of this approach is that we are working
directly with our business object.
All the JMS APIs and implementations are not getting in the way of that, so it reads as much cleaner code.